doc/integration/bitbucket_server.md, before:

# Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center integration with Sourcegraph

You can use Sourcegraph with Git repositories hosted on [Bitbucket Server](https://www.atlassian.com/software/bitbucket/server) (and the [Bitbucket Data Center](https://www.atlassian.com/enterprise/data-center/bitbucket) deployment option).

Feature | Supported?
------- | ----------
[Repository syncing](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md) | ✅
[Webhooks](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#webhooks) | ✅
[Repository permissions](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#repository-permissions) | ✅
[Sourcegraph Bitbucket Server plugin](#sourcegraph-bitbucket-server-plugin) | ✅
[Browser extension](#browser-extension) | ✅

## Repository syncing

Site admins can [add Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center repositories to Sourcegraph](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md).

## Repository permissions

Site admins can [configure Sourcegraph to respect Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center's repository access permissions](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#repository-permissions).

## Sourcegraph Bitbucket Server Plugin

We recommend installing the [Sourcegraph Bitbucket Server plugin](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/tree/master) which adds the following features to your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance:

- **Native code navigation**: users don't need to install the [Sourcegraph browser extension](#browser-extension) to get hover tooltips, go-to-definition, find-references, and code search while browsing files and viewing pull requests on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center.
- **Fast permission syncing** between Sourcegraph and Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center
- **Webhooks with configurable scope**, which are used by and highly recommended for usage with [batch changes](../batch_changes/index.md)

![Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center code navigation](https://sourcegraphstatic.com/bitbucket-code-intel-pr-short.gif)

### Installation and requirements

See the [bitbucket-server-plugin](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin) repository for instructions on how to install the plugin on your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance.

For the Bitbucket Server plugin to then communicate with the Sourcegraph instance, the Sourcegraph site configuration must be updated to include the [`corsOrigin` property](../admin/config/site_config.md) with the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center URL

```json
{
  // ...
  "corsOrigin": "https://my-bitbucket.example.com"
  // ...
}
```

#### I am seeing Content Security Policy violations, what should I do?

If you have a Content Security Policy (CSP) setup in place and have encountered issues, you may need to adjust the CSP for our Bitbucket Server plugin.

To ensure the proper functioning of our Bitbucket Server plugin, add your Sourcegraph instance URL to the following CSP directives:

- `script-src`
- `style-src`
- `connect-src`
- `frame-src`

Here's an example of how to add your Sourcegraph instance URL to the required CSP directives. In this case, the instance URL is `example.com`. Make sure not to remove any existing values in the directives; just append the Sourcegraph URL.

```
script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' example.com;
style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' example.com;
connect-src 'self' example.com;
frame-src 'self' example.com;
```

It is not ideal to include `unsafe-inline` here for `script-src`, but it is the recommended approach from Bitbucket. This is a [known issue](https://community.developer.atlassian.com/t/bitbucket-connect-library-uses-eval-preveting-to-use-csp-without-unsafe-inline-as-required/60522) with Bitbucket that is unrelated to our plugin.

By following these steps, you should be able to resolve the CSP violations for our Bitbucket Server plugin. If you have any questions or need further assistance, please feel free to reach out to our support team.

### Updating

In order to update the plugin, follow the same steps as for installing it, which are described in the [bitbucket-server-plugin](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin) repository.

When the Sourcegraph instance connected to the Bitbucket Server plugin is updated, so will the code that's fetched by the plugin to enable native code navigation. No manual steps required. (See the [Technical Details](#technical-details) section on how this works.)

### Native code navigation

Once the plugin is installed and the **Sourcegraph URL** is set under **Administration > Add-ons > Sourcegraph**, native code navigation is enabled when browsing code or pull requests on your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance.

To disable native code navigation, simply set **Sourcegraph URL** to an empty value. Note that this will also disable [Webhooks](#webhooks)!

### Webhooks

Once the plugin is installed, go to **Administration > Add-ons > Sourcegraph** to see a list of all configured webhooks and to create a new one.

To configure a webhook, follow [these steps](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#webhooks).

Disabling the webhook is as easy as removing the `"webhooks"` property from the `"plugin"` section and deleting the webhook pointing to your Sourcegraph instance under **Administration > Add-ons > Sourcegraph**.

> NOTE: Version 1.3.3 or higher of the plugin is required for Build Status support.

### Fast permission syncing

The plugin also supports an optional method of faster ACL permissions syncing that aims to improve the speed of fetching a user's permissions from Bitbucket (which can reduce the time a user has to wait to run a search if their permissions data has expired).

You can enable this feature when [configuring the connection to your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance on Sourcegraph](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#repository-permissions). For more information on when permissions are fetched, how long they're cached and how to configure that behavior, see our documentation on [Repository permissions](../admin/permissions/index.md).

The speed improvements are most important on larger Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instances with thousands of repositories. When connected to these instances, Sourcegraph would have to make many wasteful requests to fetch permission data if the plugin is not installed.

To learn how and why this works, read the [through technical details of fast permission syncing](#technical-details) below.

### Technical Details

This section provides some technical insight into the Bitbucket Server plugin to make it easier to users to decide whether or not to install it on their Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance.

You can find the full source code for the plugin at [github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/).

#### Native code navigation

The Bitbucket Server plugin provides **native code navigation** without users having to install the [Sourcegraph browser extension](browser_extension.md).

It does that by fetching the required JavaScript code from the configured Sourcegraph instance and injecting it into the HTML that the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance serves. See the [`sourcegraph-bitbucket.js`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/resources/js/sourcegraph-bitbucket.js) file for how it does that.

The code that's injected is the code of the [Sourcegraph browser extension](#browser-extension). It is hosted by your Sourcegraph instance in this case and adds the same code navigation functionality to all files and pull requests viewed on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center.

The code only talks to the Sourcegraph instance that's configured in the Bitbucket Server plugin configuration. It doesn't add any more load to the Bitbucker Server instance.

No private code, private repository names, usernames, or any other specific data is sent somewhere else. The code will send usage information to the connected private Sourcegraph instance only, so that the site admins can see usage statistics.

If it failed to load or talk to the Sourcegraph instance, messages are logged to the browser console.

When the Sourcegraph instance is updated to a newer version, the embedded browser extension code that provides the native code navigation may also be updated.

#### Webhooks

Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center natively only [provides **per-repository** webhooks](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/managing-webhooks-in-bitbucket-server-938025878.html).

Sourcegraph's Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center adds support for webhooks with a **configurable scope**. Each webhook can be configured to listen to specific events **globally**, per **project** or per **repository**.

The motivation behind this added functionality is to more efficiently react to updates to Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center pull requests when using [batch changes](../batch_changes/index.md) by requiring only a single webhook to receive events for hundreds or thousands of pull requests across projects and repositories.

The plugin adds a `/webhook` endpoint that accepts `GET`, `POST` and `DELETE` HTTP request to list, create and delete webhooks respectively. The full URL for this endpoint would be something like `https://your-bbs-instance.example.com/rest/sourcegraph-admin/1.0/webhook`. See the [webhooks README](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/webhook/README.md) for detailed information on which payloads this endpoint accepts.

Once the plugin is installed it registers an asynchronous listener (see [`WebhookListener.java`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/webhook/WebhookListener.java)) that listens to `PullRequestEvent`s and `BuildStatusEvent`s. When an event is dispatched to the listener it checks whether a webhook has been registered for the scope and type of the event and if so, it enqueues the sending of a request to the webhook's endpoint in a thread pool. (See [`WebhookListener.handle`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/webhook/WebhookListener.java#L62-L76) and [`Dispatcher.java`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/webhook/Dispatcher.java).)

In order to persist the configured webhooks across restarts of the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance the plugin uses the [Active Objects ORM](https://developer.atlassian.com/server/framework/atlassian-sdk/active-objects/) of the Atlassian SDK. It registers two Active Objects: [`WebhookEntity` and `EventEntity`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/94e4be96b57286429cc543205164586af03e9b9b/src/main/resources/atlassian-plugin.xml#L10-L14).

If Sourcegraph is configured to make use of the Bitbucket Server plugin webhooks (which is done by setting the [`"plugin.webhooks"` property in the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center configuration](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#webhooks)), it sends a request to the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance, every minute, to make sure that a webhook on the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance exists and points to the Sourcegraph instance.

#### Fast permission syncing

When Sourcegraph is configured to use [Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center's repository permissions](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#repository-permissions) to control access to repositories on Sourcegraph, it needs to fetch permissions for each user.

The Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center REST API only provides **paginated** endpoints to fetch either the list of repositories a given user has access to, or the list of users that have access to a given repository. Both endpoints return the **full representation of the entities**.

Since Sourcegraph is only interested in the IDs of either repositories or users (those are already synced to its database) the Bitbucket Server plugins adds two REST endpoints that only return IDs to provide a more efficient way of fetching permission data:

- `/permissions/repositories?user=<USERNAME>&permission=<PERMISSION_LEVEL>`<br /> Returns **a list of repository IDs** the given `user` has access to on the given `permission` level.
- `/permissions/users?repository=<REPO>&permission=<PERMISSION_LEVEL>`<br /> Returns **a list of user IDs** that have access to the given `repository` on the given `permission` level.

The lists returned by both endpoints are encoded as [Roaring Bitmaps](https://roaringbitmap.org/).

Since only a single request is required to fetch the complete list of desired IDs and the response contains only IDs, encoded in an efficient binary format, these two endpoints make the fetching of permissions roughly **eight times faster** (measured on an instance with 10000 repositories) than using Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center's REST API.

The feature is opt-in on Sourcegraph's side but the endpoints are enabled by default on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center, which makes it easy to load-test and benchmark the endpoints with a single request. For example, in order to fetch all the repository IDs a single user has access to:

```
curl 'https://bitbucket.example.com/rest/sourcegraph-admin/1.0/permissions/repositories?user=USERNAME&permission=read' -X GET -H 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN' --output /dev/null
```

In our tests we could see that using these endpoints reduces the overall load on the instance, because instead of doing `<num_repos_user_has_access_to>/1000` requests that take 600-900ms each, Sourcegraph would only do a single request that takes 1000-1500ms.

Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center admins can further increase the performance of these endpoints by increasing the [`page.max.repositories` property in the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center configuration](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/bitbucket-server-config-properties-776640155.html#BitbucketServerconfigproperties-Paging), but you should check your other Bitbucket Server plugins will not be adversely affected by increasing this.

The plugin uses `RepositoryService`, `UserManager`, `UserService` and `SecurityService` provided by the Atlassian SDK to fetch users or repositories from Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center's database. You can see the full code for these two endpoints in [`PermissionRouter.java`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/permission/PermissionRouter.java)

## Browser extension

The [Sourcegraph browser extension](browser_extension.md) supports Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center. When installed in your web browser, it adds hover tooltips, go-to-definition, find-references, and code search to files and pull requests viewed on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center.

1. Install the [Sourcegraph browser extension](browser_extension.md).
1. [Configure the browser extension](browser_extension.md#configuring-the-sourcegraph-instance-to-use) to use your Sourcegraph instance.
1. To allow the browser extension to work on your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance:
    - Navigate to any page on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center.
    - Right-click the Sourcegraph icon in the browser extension toolbar.
    - Click "Enable Sourcegraph on this domain".
    - Click "Allow" in the permissions request popup.
1. Visit any file or pull request on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center. Hover over code or click the "View file" and "View repository" buttons.

Commit message:

Update Bitbucket Server page to link to the marketplace in addition to the manual steps
* Update the installation steps to point to the Atlassian marketplace and the manual steps
* Remove the link to the Github repository in the overview section to reduce confusion

doc/integration/bitbucket_server.md, after:

# Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center integration with Sourcegraph

You can use Sourcegraph with Git repositories hosted on [Bitbucket Server](https://www.atlassian.com/software/bitbucket/server) (and the [Bitbucket Data Center](https://www.atlassian.com/enterprise/data-center/bitbucket) deployment option).

Feature | Supported?
------- | ----------
[Repository syncing](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md) | ✅
[Webhooks](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#webhooks) | ✅
[Repository permissions](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#repository-permissions) | ✅
[Sourcegraph Bitbucket Server plugin](#sourcegraph-bitbucket-server-plugin) | ✅
[Browser extension](#browser-extension) | ✅

## Repository syncing

Site admins can [add Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center repositories to Sourcegraph](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md).

## Repository permissions

Site admins can [configure Sourcegraph to respect Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center's repository access permissions](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#repository-permissions).

## Sourcegraph Bitbucket Plugin

We recommend installing the Sourcegraph Bitbucket plugin which adds the following features to your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance:

- **Native code navigation**: users don't need to install the [Sourcegraph browser extension](#browser-extension) to get hover tooltips, go-to-definition, find-references, and code search while browsing files and viewing pull requests on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center.
- **Fast permission syncing** between Sourcegraph and Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center
- **Webhooks with configurable scope**, which are used by and highly recommended for usage with [batch changes](../batch_changes/index.md)

![Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center code navigation](https://sourcegraphstatic.com/bitbucket-code-intel-pr-short.gif)

### Installation and requirements

Install the Sourcegraph plugin for Bitbucket from the [Atlassian Marketplace](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1231975/sourcegraph-for-bitbucket?tab=overview&hosting=datacenter) or see the [bitbucket-server-plugin](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin) repository for instructions on how to manually install the plugin on your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance.

For the Bitbucket Server plugin to then communicate with the Sourcegraph instance, the Sourcegraph site configuration must be updated to include the [`corsOrigin` property](../admin/config/site_config.md) with the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center URL

```json
{
  // ...
  "corsOrigin": "https://my-bitbucket.example.com"
  // ...
}
```

#### I am seeing Content Security Policy violations, what should I do?

If you have a Content Security Policy (CSP) setup in place and have encountered issues, you may need to adjust the CSP for our Bitbucket Server plugin.

To ensure the proper functioning of our Bitbucket Server plugin, add your Sourcegraph instance URL to the following CSP directives:

- `script-src`
- `style-src`
- `connect-src`
- `frame-src`

Here's an example of how to add your Sourcegraph instance URL to the required CSP directives. In this case, the instance URL is `example.com`. Make sure not to remove any existing values in the directives; just append the Sourcegraph URL.

```
script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' example.com;
style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' example.com;
connect-src 'self' example.com;
frame-src 'self' example.com;
```

It is not ideal to include `unsafe-inline` here for `script-src`, but it is the recommended approach from Bitbucket. This is a [known issue](https://community.developer.atlassian.com/t/bitbucket-connect-library-uses-eval-preveting-to-use-csp-without-unsafe-inline-as-required/60522) with Bitbucket that is unrelated to our plugin.

By following these steps, you should be able to resolve the CSP violations for our Bitbucket Server plugin. If you have any questions or need further assistance, please feel free to reach out to our support team.

### Updating

In order to update the plugin, follow the same steps as for installing it, which are described in the [bitbucket-server-plugin](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin) repository.

When the Sourcegraph instance connected to the Bitbucket Server plugin is updated, so will the code that's fetched by the plugin to enable native code navigation. No manual steps required. (See the [Technical Details](#technical-details) section on how this works.)

### Native code navigation

Once the plugin is installed and the **Sourcegraph URL** is set under **Administration > Add-ons > Sourcegraph**, native code navigation is enabled when browsing code or pull requests on your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance.

To disable native code navigation, simply set **Sourcegraph URL** to an empty value. Note that this will also disable [Webhooks](#webhooks)!

### Webhooks

Once the plugin is installed, go to **Administration > Add-ons > Sourcegraph** to see a list of all configured webhooks and to create a new one.

To configure a webhook, follow [these steps](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#webhooks).

Disabling the webhook is as easy as removing the `"webhooks"` property from the `"plugin"` section and deleting the webhook pointing to your Sourcegraph instance under **Administration > Add-ons > Sourcegraph**.

> NOTE: Version 1.3.3 or higher of the plugin is required for Build Status support.

### Fast permission syncing

The plugin also supports an optional method of faster ACL permissions syncing that aims to improve the speed of fetching a user's permissions from Bitbucket (which can reduce the time a user has to wait to run a search if their permissions data has expired).

You can enable this feature when [configuring the connection to your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance on Sourcegraph](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#repository-permissions). For more information on when permissions are fetched, how long they're cached and how to configure that behavior, see our documentation on [Repository permissions](../admin/permissions/index.md).

The speed improvements are most important on larger Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instances with thousands of repositories. When connected to these instances, Sourcegraph would have to make many wasteful requests to fetch permission data if the plugin is not installed.

To learn how and why this works, read the [through technical details of fast permission syncing](#technical-details) below.

### Technical Details

This section provides some technical insight into the Bitbucket Server plugin to make it easier to users to decide whether or not to install it on their Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance.

You can find the full source code for the plugin at [github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/).

#### Native code navigation

The Bitbucket Server plugin provides **native code navigation** without users having to install the [Sourcegraph browser extension](browser_extension.md).

It does that by fetching the required JavaScript code from the configured Sourcegraph instance and injecting it into the HTML that the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance serves. See the [`sourcegraph-bitbucket.js`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/resources/js/sourcegraph-bitbucket.js) file for how it does that.

The code that's injected is the code of the [Sourcegraph browser extension](#browser-extension). It is hosted by your Sourcegraph instance in this case and adds the same code navigation functionality to all files and pull requests viewed on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center.

The code only talks to the Sourcegraph instance that's configured in the Bitbucket Server plugin configuration. It doesn't add any more load to the Bitbucker Server instance.

No private code, private repository names, usernames, or any other specific data is sent somewhere else. The code will send usage information to the connected private Sourcegraph instance only, so that the site admins can see usage statistics.

If it failed to load or talk to the Sourcegraph instance, messages are logged to the browser console.

When the Sourcegraph instance is updated to a newer version, the embedded browser extension code that provides the native code navigation may also be updated.

#### Webhooks

Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center natively only [provides **per-repository** webhooks](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/managing-webhooks-in-bitbucket-server-938025878.html).

Sourcegraph's Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center adds support for webhooks with a **configurable scope**. Each webhook can be configured to listen to specific events **globally**, per **project** or per **repository**.

The motivation behind this added functionality is to more efficiently react to updates to Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center pull requests when using [batch changes](../batch_changes/index.md) by requiring only a single webhook to receive events for hundreds or thousands of pull requests across projects and repositories.

The plugin adds a `/webhook` endpoint that accepts `GET`, `POST` and `DELETE` HTTP request to list, create and delete webhooks respectively. The full URL for this endpoint would be something like `https://your-bbs-instance.example.com/rest/sourcegraph-admin/1.0/webhook`. See the [webhooks README](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/webhook/README.md) for detailed information on which payloads this endpoint accepts.

Once the plugin is installed it registers an asynchronous listener (see [`WebhookListener.java`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/webhook/WebhookListener.java)) that listens to `PullRequestEvent`s and `BuildStatusEvent`s. When an event is dispatched to the listener it checks whether a webhook has been registered for the scope and type of the event and if so, it enqueues the sending of a request to the webhook's endpoint in a thread pool. (See [`WebhookListener.handle`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/webhook/WebhookListener.java#L62-L76) and [`Dispatcher.java`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/webhook/Dispatcher.java).)

In order to persist the configured webhooks across restarts of the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance the plugin uses the [Active Objects ORM](https://developer.atlassian.com/server/framework/atlassian-sdk/active-objects/) of the Atlassian SDK. It registers two Active Objects: [`WebhookEntity` and `EventEntity`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/94e4be96b57286429cc543205164586af03e9b9b/src/main/resources/atlassian-plugin.xml#L10-L14).

If Sourcegraph is configured to make use of the Bitbucket Server plugin webhooks (which is done by setting the [`"plugin.webhooks"` property in the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center configuration](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#webhooks)), it sends a request to the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance, every minute, to make sure that a webhook on the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance exists and points to the Sourcegraph instance.

#### Fast permission syncing

When Sourcegraph is configured to use [Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center's repository permissions](../admin/external_service/bitbucket_server.md#repository-permissions) to control access to repositories on Sourcegraph, it needs to fetch permissions for each user.

The Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center REST API only provides **paginated** endpoints to fetch either the list of repositories a given user has access to, or the list of users that have access to a given repository. Both endpoints return the **full representation of the entities**.

Since Sourcegraph is only interested in the IDs of either repositories or users (those are already synced to its database) the Bitbucket Server plugins adds two REST endpoints that only return IDs to provide a more efficient way of fetching permission data:

- `/permissions/repositories?user=<USERNAME>&permission=<PERMISSION_LEVEL>`<br /> Returns **a list of repository IDs** the given `user` has access to on the given `permission` level.
- `/permissions/users?repository=<REPO>&permission=<PERMISSION_LEVEL>`<br /> Returns **a list of user IDs** that have access to the given `repository` on the given `permission` level.

The lists returned by both endpoints are encoded as [Roaring Bitmaps](https://roaringbitmap.org/).

Since only a single request is required to fetch the complete list of desired IDs and the response contains only IDs, encoded in an efficient binary format, these two endpoints make the fetching of permissions roughly **eight times faster** (measured on an instance with 10000 repositories) than using Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center's REST API.

The feature is opt-in on Sourcegraph's side but the endpoints are enabled by default on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center, which makes it easy to load-test and benchmark the endpoints with a single request. For example, in order to fetch all the repository IDs a single user has access to:

```
curl 'https://bitbucket.example.com/rest/sourcegraph-admin/1.0/permissions/repositories?user=USERNAME&permission=read' -X GET -H 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN' --output /dev/null
```

In our tests we could see that using these endpoints reduces the overall load on the instance, because instead of doing `<num_repos_user_has_access_to>/1000` requests that take 600-900ms each, Sourcegraph would only do a single request that takes 1000-1500ms.

Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center admins can further increase the performance of these endpoints by increasing the [`page.max.repositories` property in the Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center configuration](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/bitbucket-server-config-properties-776640155.html#BitbucketServerconfigproperties-Paging), but you should check your other Bitbucket Server plugins will not be adversely affected by increasing this.

The plugin uses `RepositoryService`, `UserManager`, `UserService` and `SecurityService` provided by the Atlassian SDK to fetch users or repositories from Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center's database. You can see the full code for these two endpoints in [`PermissionRouter.java`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/blob/master/src/main/java/com/sourcegraph/permission/PermissionRouter.java)

## Browser extension

The [Sourcegraph browser extension](browser_extension.md) supports Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center. When installed in your web browser, it adds hover tooltips, go-to-definition, find-references, and code search to files and pull requests viewed on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center.

1. Install the [Sourcegraph browser extension](browser_extension.md).
1. [Configure the browser extension](browser_extension.md#configuring-the-sourcegraph-instance-to-use) to use your Sourcegraph instance.
1. To allow the browser extension to work on your Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center instance:
    - Navigate to any page on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center.
    - Right-click the Sourcegraph icon in the browser extension toolbar.
    - Click "Enable Sourcegraph on this domain".
    - Click "Allow" in the permissions request popup.
1. Visit any file or pull request on Bitbucket Server / Bitbucket Data Center. Hover over code or click the "View file" and "View repository" buttons.
