doc/cody/overview/enable-cody-enterprise.md, before:

<style>

  .markdown-body .cards {
  display: flex;
  align-items: stretch;
}

.markdown-body .cards .card {
  flex: 1;
  margin: 0.5em;
  color: var(--text-color);
  border-radius: 4px;
  border: 1px solid var(--sidebar-nav-active-bg);
  padding: 1.5rem;
  padding-top: 1.25rem;
}

.markdown-body .cards .card:hover {
  color: var(--link-color);
}

.markdown-body .cards .card span {
  color: var(--link-color);
  font-weight: bold;
}

.markdown-body .cards {
  display: flex;
  align-items: stretch;
}

.markdown-body .cards .card {
  flex: 1;
  margin: 0.5em;
  color: var(--text-color);
  border-radius: 4px;
  border: 1px solid var(--sidebar-nav-active-bg);
  padding: 1.5rem;
  padding-top: 1.25rem;
}

.markdown-body .cards .card:hover {
  color: var(--link-color);
}

.markdown-body .cards .card span {
  color: var(--link-color);
  font-weight: bold;
}

.limg {
  list-style: none;
  margin: 3rem 0 !important;
  padding: 0 !important;
}
.limg li {
  margin-bottom: 1rem;
  padding: 0 !important;
}

.limg li:last {
  margin-bottom: 0;
}

.limg a {
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    transition-property: all;
   transition-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.4, 0, 0.2, 1);
     transition-duration: 350ms;
     border-radius: 0.75rem;
  padding-top: 1rem;
  padding-bottom: 1rem;

}

.limg a {
  padding-left: 1rem;
  padding-right: 1rem;
  background: rgb(113 220 232 / 19%);
}

.limg p {
  margin: 0rem;
}
.limg a img {
  width: 1rem;
}

.limg h3 {
  display:flex;
  gap: 0.6rem;
  margin-top: 0;
  margin-bottom: .25rem

}
</style>

# Enabling Cody on Sourcegraph Enterprise

<p class="subtitle">Learn how to use Cody and its features with Sourcegraph enterpise.</p>

Cody enhances your coding experience by providing intelligent code suggestions, context-aware completions, and advanced code analysis. This guide will walk you through the steps to install and set up Cody with your Sourcegraph enterprise instance via:

- [Self-hosted Sourcegraph](#cody-on-self-hosted-sourcegraph-enterprise)
- [Sourcegraph Cloud](#cody-on-sourcegraph-cloud)

<ul class="limg">
  <li>
    <a class="card text-left" target="_blank" href="https://sourcegraph.com/cody/pricing">
      <h3><img alt="Cody Enterprise" src="https://sourcegraph.com/.assets/img/sourcegraph-mark.svg" />Cody Enterprise</h3>
      <p>Get in touch with our team to try Cody for Sourcegraph enterprise.</p>
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Cody on self-hosted Sourcegraph enterprise

### Prerequisites

- You have Sourcegraph version 5.1.0 or above
- A Sourcegraph enterprise subscription with [Cody Gateway access](./../core-concepts/cody-gateway.md) or [an account with a third-party LLM provider](#using-a-third-party-llm-provider-directly)

### Enable Cody on your Sourcegraph instance

Cody uses one or more third-party LLM (Large Language Model) providers. Make sure you review [Cody's usage and privacy notice](https://sourcegraph.com/terms/cody-notice). Code snippets are sent to a third-party language model provider when you use the Cody extension or enable embeddings.

This requires site-admin privileges. To do so,

1. First, configure your desired LLM provider either by [Using Sourcegraph Cody Gateway](./../core-concepts/cody-gateway.md#using-cody-gateway-in-sourcegraph-enterprise) (recommended) or [Using a third-party LLM provider directly](#using-a-third-party-llm-provider-directly)

    > NOTE: If you are a Sourcegraph Cloud customer, skip directly to step 3.

2. Next, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
    {
      // [...]
      "cody.enabled": true
    }
```

1. Finally, set up a policy to automatically [create and configure](./../core-concepts/embeddings/configure-embeddings.md) embeddings for your repositories.

Cody is now fully enabled on your self-hosted Sourcegraph enterprise instance!

### Configure the VS Code extension

With Cody enabled on your Sourcegraph instance, any user can configure and use the [Cody VS Code extension](./../overview/install-vscode.md). This does not require admin privilege. However,

- If you currently installed a previous version of Cody, uninstall it and reload VS Code before proceeding to the next steps
- Search for "Cody AI” in your VS Code extension marketplace, and install it again
- Reload VS Code, and open the Cody extension <!-- Review and accept the terms. (this has been removed?) -->
- Next, to connect the Cody extension with your Sourcegraph instance, click the "Other Sign In Options..." and select your enterprise option depending on your Sourcegraph version (go to **Sourcegraph > Settings**, and the version will be in the bottom left)

  <img width="1369" alt="image" src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/cody-sign-in-options.png">

- If you are on version 5.1 and above, you will need to follow an authorization flow to give Cody access to your enterprise instance
  - For Sourcegraph 5.0 and above, you'll need to generate an access token. From your Sourcegraph account, go to **Settings > Access tokens** (`https://<your-instance>.sourcegraph.com/users/<your-username>/settings/tokens`)

  <img width="1369" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25070988/227510686-4afcb1f9-a3a5-495f-b1bf-6d661ba53cce.png">

  - Create and copy your access token and return to VS code. Once again, click on the "Other Sign In Options..." and select "Sign in to Sourcegraph Enterprise instance via Access Token"
  - Enter the URL for your sourcegraph instance and then paste in your access token

You're all set to use Cody on your self-hosted Sourcegraph instance. You can learn more about the Cody use cases [here](./../use-cases.md).

## Cody on Sourcegraph Cloud

- With [Sourcegraph Cloud](../../cloud/index.md), you get Cody as a managed service, and you **do not** need to [enable Cody as is required for self-hosted setup](#enable-cody-on-your-sourcegraph-instance)
- However, by contacting your account manager, Cody can still be enabled on-demand on your Sourcegraph instance. The Sourcegraph team will refer to the [handbook](https://golinks.io/cloud-requests-cody)
- Next, you can configure the [VS Code extension](#configure-the-vs-code-extension) by following the same steps as mentioned for the self-hosted environment
- After which, you are all set to use Cody with Sourcegraph Cloud

[Learn more about running Cody on Sourcegraph Cloud](../../cloud/index.md#cody).

## Enabling codebase-aware answers

> NOTE: To enable codebase-aware answers for Cody, you must first [configure the code graph context](./../core-concepts/code-graph.md).

The `Cody: Codebase` setting in VS Code enables codebase-aware answers for the Cody extension.

- Open your VS Code workspace settings via <kbd>Cmd/Ctrl+,</kbd>, (or File > Preferences (Settings) on Windows & Linux)
- Search for the `Cody: Codebase` setting
- Enter the repository name as listed in your Sourcegraph instance, for example, `github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph` without the `https` protocol

By setting this configuration to the repository name, Cody can provide more accurate and relevant answers to your coding questions based on the context of your current codebase.

## Disable Cody

To turn Cody off:

- Go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
    {
      // [...]
      "cody.enabled": false
    }
```

- Next, remove `completions` and `embeddings` configuration if they exist

## Enable Cody only for some users

To enable Cody only for some users, for example, when rolling out a Cody POC, follow all the steps mentioned in [Enabling Cody on your Sourcegraph instance](#enable-cody-on-your-sourcegraph-instance). Then, use the feature flag `cody` to turn Cody on selectively for some users. To do so:

- Go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
    {
      // [...]
      "cody.enabled": true,
      "cody.restrictUsersFeatureFlag": true
    }
```

- Next, go to **Site admin > Feature flags** (`/site-admin/feature-flags`)
- Add a feature flag called `cody`
- Select the `boolean` type and set it to `false`
- Once added, click on the feature flag and use **add overrides** to pick users that will have access to Cody

<img width="979" alt="Add overides" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25070988/235454594-9f1a6b27-6882-44d9-be32-258d6c244880.png">

## Using a third-party LLM provider

Instead of [Sourcegraph Cody Gateway](./../core-concepts/cody-gateway.md), you can also configure Sourcegraph to use a third-party provider directly, like:

- Anthropic
- OpenAI
- Azure OpenAI (Experimental)
- AWS Bedrock (Experimental)

### Anthropic

Create your own key with Anthropic [here](https://console.anthropic.com/account/keys). Once you have the key, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
{
  // [...]
  "cody.enabled": true,
  "completions": {
    "provider": "anthropic",
    "chatModel": "claude-2", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "fastChatModel": "claude-instant-1", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "completionModel": "claude-instant-1", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "accessToken": "<key>"
  }
}
```

### OpenAI

Create your own key with OpenAI [here](https://beta.openai.com/account/api-keys). Once you have the key, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
{
  // [...]
  "cody.enabled": true,
  "completions": {
    "provider": "openai",
    "chatModel": "gpt-4", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "fastChatModel": "gpt-35-turbo", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "completionModel": "gpt-35-turbo", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "accessToken": "<key>"
  }
}
```

[Read and learn more about the supported OpenAI models here →](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models)

### Azure OpenAI

<aside class="experimental">
<p>
<span style="margin-right:0.25rem;" class="badge badge-experimental">Experimental</span> Azure OpenAI support is in the experimental stage.
<br />
For any feedback, you can <a href="https://sourcegraph.com/contact">contact us</a> directly, file an <a href="https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/issues">issue</a>, join our <a href="https://discord.com/servers/sourcegraph-969688426372825169">Discord</a>, or <a href="https://twitter.com/sourcegraphcody">tweet</a>.
</p>
</aside>

Create a project in the Azure OpenAI portal. Go to **Keys and Endpoint** from the project overview and get **one of the keys** on that page and the **endpoint**.

Next, under **Model deployments**, click "manage deployments" and ensure you deploy the models you want, for example, `gpt-35-turbo`. Take note of the **deployment name**.

Once done, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
{
  // [...]
  "cody.enabled": true,
  "completions": {
    "provider": "azure-openai",
    "chatModel": "<deployment name of the model>",
    "fastChatModel": "<deployment name of the model>",
    "completionModel": "<deployment name of the model>",
    "endpoint": "<endpoint>",
    "accessToken": "<See below>"
  }
}
```

For the access token, you can either:

- As of 5.2.4 the access token can be left empty and it will rely on Environmental, Workload Identity or Managed Identity credentials configured for the `frontend` and `worker` services
- Set it to `<API_KEY>` if directly configuring the credentials using the API key specified in the Azure portal


### Anthropic Claude through AWS Bedrock

<aside class="experimental">
<p>
<span style="margin-right:0.25rem;" class="badge badge-experimental">Experimental</span> AWS Bedrock support is in the experimental stage. You must have Sourcegraph 5.2.2 or higher.
<br />
For any feedback, you can <a href="https://sourcegraph.com/contact">contact us</a> directly, file an <a href="https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/issues">issue</a>, join our <a href="https://discord.com/servers/sourcegraph-969688426372825169">Discord</a>, or <a href="https://twitter.com/sourcegraphcody">tweet</a>.
</p>
</aside>

First, make sure you can access AWS Bedrock. Then, request access to the Anthropic Claude models in Bedrock.
This may take some time to provision.

Next, create an IAM user with programmatic access in your AWS account. Depending on your AWS setup, different ways may be required to provide access. All completion requests are made from the `frontend` service, so this service needs to be able to access AWS. You can use instance role bindings or directly configure the IAM user credentials in the configuration.

Once ready, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
{
  // [...]
  "cody.enabled": true,
  "completions": {
    "provider": "aws-bedrock",
    "chatModel": "anthropic.claude-v2",
    "fastChatModel": "anthropic.claude-instant-v1",
    "endpoint": "<AWS-Region>", // For example: us-west-2.
    "accessToken": "<See below>"
  }
}
```

For the access token, you can either:

- Leave it empty and rely on instance role bindings or other AWS configurations in the `frontend` service
- Set it to `<ACCESS_KEY_ID>:<SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>` if directly configuring the credentials
- Set it to `<ACCESS_KEY_ID>:<SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>:<SESSION_TOKEN>` if a session token is also required

Similarly, you can also [use a third-party LLM provider directly for embeddings](./../core-concepts/embeddings.md#third-party-embeddings-provider).

Commit message:

add note to docs about abiltity to proxy auth requests

doc/cody/overview/enable-cody-enterprise.md, after:

<style>

  .markdown-body .cards {
  display: flex;
  align-items: stretch;
}

.markdown-body .cards .card {
  flex: 1;
  margin: 0.5em;
  color: var(--text-color);
  border-radius: 4px;
  border: 1px solid var(--sidebar-nav-active-bg);
  padding: 1.5rem;
  padding-top: 1.25rem;
}

.markdown-body .cards .card:hover {
  color: var(--link-color);
}

.markdown-body .cards .card span {
  color: var(--link-color);
  font-weight: bold;
}

.markdown-body .cards {
  display: flex;
  align-items: stretch;
}

.markdown-body .cards .card {
  flex: 1;
  margin: 0.5em;
  color: var(--text-color);
  border-radius: 4px;
  border: 1px solid var(--sidebar-nav-active-bg);
  padding: 1.5rem;
  padding-top: 1.25rem;
}

.markdown-body .cards .card:hover {
  color: var(--link-color);
}

.markdown-body .cards .card span {
  color: var(--link-color);
  font-weight: bold;
}

.limg {
  list-style: none;
  margin: 3rem 0 !important;
  padding: 0 !important;
}
.limg li {
  margin-bottom: 1rem;
  padding: 0 !important;
}

.limg li:last {
  margin-bottom: 0;
}

.limg a {
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    transition-property: all;
   transition-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.4, 0, 0.2, 1);
     transition-duration: 350ms;
     border-radius: 0.75rem;
  padding-top: 1rem;
  padding-bottom: 1rem;

}

.limg a {
  padding-left: 1rem;
  padding-right: 1rem;
  background: rgb(113 220 232 / 19%);
}

.limg p {
  margin: 0rem;
}
.limg a img {
  width: 1rem;
}

.limg h3 {
  display:flex;
  gap: 0.6rem;
  margin-top: 0;
  margin-bottom: .25rem

}
</style>

# Enabling Cody on Sourcegraph Enterprise

<p class="subtitle">Learn how to use Cody and its features with Sourcegraph enterpise.</p>

Cody enhances your coding experience by providing intelligent code suggestions, context-aware completions, and advanced code analysis. This guide will walk you through the steps to install and set up Cody with your Sourcegraph enterprise instance via:

- [Self-hosted Sourcegraph](#cody-on-self-hosted-sourcegraph-enterprise)
- [Sourcegraph Cloud](#cody-on-sourcegraph-cloud)

<ul class="limg">
  <li>
    <a class="card text-left" target="_blank" href="https://sourcegraph.com/cody/pricing">
      <h3><img alt="Cody Enterprise" src="https://sourcegraph.com/.assets/img/sourcegraph-mark.svg" />Cody Enterprise</h3>
      <p>Get in touch with our team to try Cody for Sourcegraph enterprise.</p>
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Cody on self-hosted Sourcegraph enterprise

### Prerequisites

- You have Sourcegraph version 5.1.0 or above
- A Sourcegraph enterprise subscription with [Cody Gateway access](./../core-concepts/cody-gateway.md) or [an account with a third-party LLM provider](#using-a-third-party-llm-provider-directly)

### Enable Cody on your Sourcegraph instance

Cody uses one or more third-party LLM (Large Language Model) providers. Make sure you review [Cody's usage and privacy notice](https://sourcegraph.com/terms/cody-notice). Code snippets are sent to a third-party language model provider when you use the Cody extension or enable embeddings.

This requires site-admin privileges. To do so,

1. First, configure your desired LLM provider either by [Using Sourcegraph Cody Gateway](./../core-concepts/cody-gateway.md#using-cody-gateway-in-sourcegraph-enterprise) (recommended) or [Using a third-party LLM provider directly](#using-a-third-party-llm-provider-directly)

    > NOTE: If you are a Sourcegraph Cloud customer, skip directly to step 3.

2. Next, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
    {
      // [...]
      "cody.enabled": true
    }
```

1. Finally, set up a policy to automatically [create and configure](./../core-concepts/embeddings/configure-embeddings.md) embeddings for your repositories.

Cody is now fully enabled on your self-hosted Sourcegraph enterprise instance!

### Configure the VS Code extension

With Cody enabled on your Sourcegraph instance, any user can configure and use the [Cody VS Code extension](./../overview/install-vscode.md). This does not require admin privilege. However,

- If you currently installed a previous version of Cody, uninstall it and reload VS Code before proceeding to the next steps
- Search for "Cody AI” in your VS Code extension marketplace, and install it again
- Reload VS Code, and open the Cody extension <!-- Review and accept the terms. (this has been removed?) -->
- Next, to connect the Cody extension with your Sourcegraph instance, click the "Other Sign In Options..." and select your enterprise option depending on your Sourcegraph version (go to **Sourcegraph > Settings**, and the version will be in the bottom left)

  <img width="1369" alt="image" src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/cody-sign-in-options.png">

- If you are on version 5.1 and above, you will need to follow an authorization flow to give Cody access to your enterprise instance
  - For Sourcegraph 5.0 and above, you'll need to generate an access token. From your Sourcegraph account, go to **Settings > Access tokens** (`https://<your-instance>.sourcegraph.com/users/<your-username>/settings/tokens`)

  <img width="1369" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25070988/227510686-4afcb1f9-a3a5-495f-b1bf-6d661ba53cce.png">

  - Create and copy your access token and return to VS code. Once again, click on the "Other Sign In Options..." and select "Sign in to Sourcegraph Enterprise instance via Access Token"
  - Enter the URL for your sourcegraph instance and then paste in your access token

You're all set to use Cody on your self-hosted Sourcegraph instance. You can learn more about the Cody use cases [here](./../use-cases.md).

## Cody on Sourcegraph Cloud

- With [Sourcegraph Cloud](../../cloud/index.md), you get Cody as a managed service, and you **do not** need to [enable Cody as is required for self-hosted setup](#enable-cody-on-your-sourcegraph-instance)
- However, by contacting your account manager, Cody can still be enabled on-demand on your Sourcegraph instance. The Sourcegraph team will refer to the [handbook](https://golinks.io/cloud-requests-cody)
- Next, you can configure the [VS Code extension](#configure-the-vs-code-extension) by following the same steps as mentioned for the self-hosted environment
- After which, you are all set to use Cody with Sourcegraph Cloud

[Learn more about running Cody on Sourcegraph Cloud](../../cloud/index.md#cody).

## Enabling codebase-aware answers

> NOTE: To enable codebase-aware answers for Cody, you must first [configure the code graph context](./../core-concepts/code-graph.md).

The `Cody: Codebase` setting in VS Code enables codebase-aware answers for the Cody extension.

- Open your VS Code workspace settings via <kbd>Cmd/Ctrl+,</kbd>, (or File > Preferences (Settings) on Windows & Linux)
- Search for the `Cody: Codebase` setting
- Enter the repository name as listed in your Sourcegraph instance, for example, `github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph` without the `https` protocol

By setting this configuration to the repository name, Cody can provide more accurate and relevant answers to your coding questions based on the context of your current codebase.

## Disable Cody

To turn Cody off:

- Go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
    {
      // [...]
      "cody.enabled": false
    }
```

- Next, remove `completions` and `embeddings` configuration if they exist

## Enable Cody only for some users

To enable Cody only for some users, for example, when rolling out a Cody POC, follow all the steps mentioned in [Enabling Cody on your Sourcegraph instance](#enable-cody-on-your-sourcegraph-instance). Then, use the feature flag `cody` to turn Cody on selectively for some users. To do so:

- Go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
    {
      // [...]
      "cody.enabled": true,
      "cody.restrictUsersFeatureFlag": true
    }
```

- Next, go to **Site admin > Feature flags** (`/site-admin/feature-flags`)
- Add a feature flag called `cody`
- Select the `boolean` type and set it to `false`
- Once added, click on the feature flag and use **add overrides** to pick users that will have access to Cody

<img width="979" alt="Add overides" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25070988/235454594-9f1a6b27-6882-44d9-be32-258d6c244880.png">

## Using a third-party LLM provider

Instead of [Sourcegraph Cody Gateway](./../core-concepts/cody-gateway.md), you can also configure Sourcegraph to use a third-party provider directly, like:

- Anthropic
- OpenAI
- Azure OpenAI (Experimental)
- AWS Bedrock (Experimental)

### Anthropic

Create your own key with Anthropic [here](https://console.anthropic.com/account/keys). Once you have the key, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
{
  // [...]
  "cody.enabled": true,
  "completions": {
    "provider": "anthropic",
    "chatModel": "claude-2", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "fastChatModel": "claude-instant-1", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "completionModel": "claude-instant-1", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "accessToken": "<key>"
  }
}
```

### OpenAI

Create your own key with OpenAI [here](https://beta.openai.com/account/api-keys). Once you have the key, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
{
  // [...]
  "cody.enabled": true,
  "completions": {
    "provider": "openai",
    "chatModel": "gpt-4", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "fastChatModel": "gpt-35-turbo", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "completionModel": "gpt-35-turbo", // Or any other model you would like to use
    "accessToken": "<key>"
  }
}
```

[Read and learn more about the supported OpenAI models here →](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models)

### Azure OpenAI

<aside class="experimental">
<p>
<span style="margin-right:0.25rem;" class="badge badge-experimental">Experimental</span> Azure OpenAI support is in the experimental stage.
<br />
For any feedback, you can <a href="https://sourcegraph.com/contact">contact us</a> directly, file an <a href="https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/issues">issue</a>, join our <a href="https://discord.com/servers/sourcegraph-969688426372825169">Discord</a>, or <a href="https://twitter.com/sourcegraphcody">tweet</a>.
</p>
</aside>

Create a project in the Azure OpenAI portal. Go to **Keys and Endpoint** from the project overview and get **one of the keys** on that page and the **endpoint**.

Next, under **Model deployments**, click "manage deployments" and ensure you deploy the models you want, for example, `gpt-35-turbo`. Take note of the **deployment name**.

Once done, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
{
  // [...]
  "cody.enabled": true,
  "completions": {
    "provider": "azure-openai",
    "chatModel": "<deployment name of the model>",
    "fastChatModel": "<deployment name of the model>",
    "completionModel": "<deployment name of the model>",
    "endpoint": "<endpoint>",
    "accessToken": "<See below>"
  }
}
```

For the access token, you can either:

- As of 5.2.4 the access token can be left empty and it will rely on Environmental, Workload Identity or Managed Identity credentials configured for the `frontend` and `worker` services
- Set it to `<API_KEY>` if directly configuring the credentials using the API key specified in the Azure portal
- If Azure Authentication requests require a proxy the environment variable `CODY_AZURE_AUTH_PROXY` can be specified to a proxy URL


### Anthropic Claude through AWS Bedrock

<aside class="experimental">
<p>
<span style="margin-right:0.25rem;" class="badge badge-experimental">Experimental</span> AWS Bedrock support is in the experimental stage. You must have Sourcegraph 5.2.2 or higher.
<br />
For any feedback, you can <a href="https://sourcegraph.com/contact">contact us</a> directly, file an <a href="https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody/issues">issue</a>, join our <a href="https://discord.com/servers/sourcegraph-969688426372825169">Discord</a>, or <a href="https://twitter.com/sourcegraphcody">tweet</a>.
</p>
</aside>

First, make sure you can access AWS Bedrock. Then, request access to the Anthropic Claude models in Bedrock.
This may take some time to provision.

Next, create an IAM user with programmatic access in your AWS account. Depending on your AWS setup, different ways may be required to provide access. All completion requests are made from the `frontend` service, so this service needs to be able to access AWS. You can use instance role bindings or directly configure the IAM user credentials in the configuration.

Once ready, go to **Site admin > Site configuration** (`/site-admin/configuration`) on your instance and set:

```json
{
  // [...]
  "cody.enabled": true,
  "completions": {
    "provider": "aws-bedrock",
    "chatModel": "anthropic.claude-v2",
    "fastChatModel": "anthropic.claude-instant-v1",
    "endpoint": "<AWS-Region>", // For example: us-west-2.
    "accessToken": "<See below>"
  }
}
```

For the access token, you can either:

- Leave it empty and rely on instance role bindings or other AWS configurations in the `frontend` service
- Set it to `<ACCESS_KEY_ID>:<SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>` if directly configuring the credentials
- Set it to `<ACCESS_KEY_ID>:<SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>:<SESSION_TOKEN>` if a session token is also required

Similarly, you can also [use a third-party LLM provider directly for embeddings](./../core-concepts/embeddings.md#third-party-embeddings-provider).
