# Bazel at Sourcegraph

Sourcegraph uses [Bazel](https://bazel.build) as its build system. Reach out on [#ask-dev-experience](https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/C04MYFW01NV) for questions and support.

## Overview

- **General**
  - [Bazel Intro](./intro.md)
  - [Bazel for teammates in a hurry](#bazel-for-teammates-in-a-hurry)
  - [Cheat sheet](#bazel-cheat-sheet)
  - [FAQ](./faq.md)
- **Context specific**
  - [Bazel and Go](./go.md)
  - [Bazel and client](./web.md)
  - [Overview of the Bazel configuration for client](./web_overview.md)
  - [Bazel and container images](./containers.md)
- **How-tos**
  - [Writing a server integration test](./server_integration_tests.md)
  - [Cookbook](./cookbook.md)
  - [Porting `go:generate` directives to Bazel](./go_generate.md)

---

## ðŸ“… Timeline

- 2023-04-03 Bazel steps are required to pass on all PR builds.
  - Run `bazel run //:gazelle-update-repos` if you changed the `go.mod`.
  - Run `bazel configure` after making all your changes in the PR and commit the updated/added `BUILD.bazel`
  - Add `[no-bazel]` in your commit description if you want to bypass Bazel.
    - âš ï¸  see [what to do after using `[no-bazel]`](#i-just-used-no-bazel-to-merge-my-pr)
- 2023-04-06 Bazel steps are required to pass on main.
  - Run `bazel run //:gazelle-update-repos` if you changed the `go.mod`.
  - Run `bazel configure` after making all your changes in the PR and commit the updated/added `BUILD.bazel`
  - Add `[no-bazel]` in your commit description if you want to bypass Bazel.
    - âš ï¸  see [what to do after using `[no-bazel]`](#i-just-used-no-bazel-to-merge-my-pr)
- 2023-04-10 You cannot opt out of Bazel anymore
- 2023-05-02 Additonally, to normal container building process, container images are now also built with `rules_oci` and Wolfi for as base images.
  - Those new images are used by the new test targets under `//testing/...` that run the E2E tests and Backend Integration tests.
  - The new images are deployed on S2 (and only S2).
  - See [Slack thread](https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/C04MYFW01NV/p1685606796918859)
- **2023-05-07 The new images are deployed on Dotcom.**
- 2023-05-14 After the release cut and the beginning of the code freeze, all operations that are now migrated to Bazel will have their legacy counterpart removed.

---

## Bazel for teammates in a hurry

### Bazel vocabulary

- A _rule_ is a function that stitches together parts of the graph.
  - ex: build go code
- A _target_ is a named rule invocation.
  - ex: build the go code for `./app`
  - ex: run the unit tests for `./app`
- A _package_ is a a group of _targets_.
  - ex: we only have one single package in the example above, the root one.

Bazel uses two types of files to define those:

- `WORKSPACE`, which sits at the root of a project and tells Bazel where to find the rules.
  - ex: get the Go _rules_ from that repository on GitHub, in this exact version.
- `BUILD.bazel`, which sits in every folder that contains _targets_.

To reference them, the convention being used is the following: `//pkg1/pkg2:my_target` and you can say things such as `//pkg1/...` to reference all possible _targets_ in a package.

Finally, let's say we have defined in our Bazel project some third party dependencies (a NPM module or a Go package), they will be referenced using the `@` sign.

- `@com_github_keegancsmith_sqlf//:sqlf`

### Bazel cheat sheet

#### Keep in mind

- Do not commit file whose name include spaces, Bazel does not like it.
- Do not expect your tests to be executed inside the source tree and to be inside a git repository.
  - They will be executed in the sandbox. Instead create a temp folder and init a git repo manually over there.

#### Building and testing things

- `bazel build [path-to-target]` builds a target.
  - ex `bazel build //lib/...` will build everything under the `/lib/...` folder in the Sourcegraph repository.
- `bazel test [path-to-target]` tests a target.
  - ex `bazel test //lib/...` will run all tests under the `/lib/...` folder in the Sourcegraph repository.
- `bazel configure` automatically inspect the source tree and update the buildfiles if needed.
- `bazel run //:gazelle-update-repos` automatically inspect the `go.mod` and update the third parties dependencies if needed.

#### Debugging buildfiles

- `bazel query "//[pkg]/..."` See all subpackages of `pkg`.
- `bazel query "//[pkg]:*"` See all targets of `pkg`.
- `bazel query //[pkg] --output location` prints where the buildfile for `pkg` is.
  - ex: `bazel query @com_github_cloudflare_circl//dh/x448 --output location` which allows to inspect the autogenerated buildfile.
- `bazel query "allpaths(pkg1, pkg2)"` list all knowns connections from `pkg1` to `pkg2`
  - ex `bazel query "allpaths(//cmd/worker, @go_googleapis//google/api)"`
  - This is very useful when you want to understand what connects a given package to another.

#### Running bazel built services locally with `sg start`

> For early adopters only.

First you need to have `bazel` installed obviously, but also `iBazel` which will watch your files and rebuild if needed. We use a tool called `bazelisk` (which is also part of Bazel) to manage the version of `bazel`. It inspects a bunch of files to determine what `bazel` version to use for your repo.

If you want the setup automated run `sg setup`, otherwise you can install it manually by executing the following commands:

- `brew install bazelisk`
- `brew install ibazel`

Then instead of running `sg start oss` you can use the `bazel` variant instead.

- `sg start oss-bazel`
- `sg start enterprise-bazel`
- `sg start codeintel-bazel`
- `sg start enterprise-codeintel-bazel`

##### How it works

When `sg start` is booting up, the standard installation process will begin as usual for commands that are not built with Bazel, but you'll also see a new program running
`[  bazel]` which will log the build process for all the targets required by your chosen commandset. Once it's done, these services will start and [`iBazel`](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-watcher)
will take the relay. It will watch the files that Bazel has indentified as having dependencies for your services, and rebuild them accordingly.

So when a change is detected, `iBazel` will build the affected target and it will be restarted once the build finishes.

##### Caveats

- You still need to run `bazel configure` if you add/remove files or packages.
- Error handling is not perfect, so if a build fails, that might stop the whole thing. We'll improve this in the upcoming days, as we gather feedback.


## Resources

- [Core Bazel (book)](https://www.amazon.com/Core-Bazel-Fast-Builds-People/dp/B08DVDM7BZ):
  - [Bazel User guide](https://bazel.build/docs)
- [Writing a custom rule that depends on an external dep](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bhirT014eCE)
- [Patching third parties when they don't build](https://rotemtam.com/2020/10/30/bazel-building-cgo-bindings/)
